Exercises - Set 2 October 2004 - from Alleg. Gen Homem Care

<REDACTED> needs a "spotter" with most of these so he won't fall.

Warm up by walking accross apartment and back several times.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
SINK EXERCISES - Do each of the 30X while holding on to sink:

A.1. Toe Rises

Rise up on toes and go down again.

A.2. Lean back

Lean back on heels.

A.3. Foot taps

Tap floor iwth toes on left foot, right.

A.4. Side swings

Move leg out to side and down (while holding onto the counter)- do for
each leg.

A.5. Deep knee bends

Spread feet apart,  bend knees (don't go down too  far- that's hard on
knees)

A.6. Knee lifts

Take a  step back (while  facing holding on  to counter or  sink), and
raise and lower knee (do for one leg, then the other.)

A.7. Walk

Walk  sideways along  counter/sink, holding  on with  one  hand.  Turn
around  and walk the  other way.   Do this  several times.  (Make sure
<REDACTED> doesn't drag either foot).  Do 5 cycles.

Do  the  same thing,  but  walking  backwards,  taking smaller  steps.
Emphasize  control and  just step  backwards (toe-heel).   Hold  on to
sink/stove while doing  this; turn around & go  back.  Do this several
times.  Do 5 cycles.

A.8. Arm Rotations

Hold left arm horizontally to size, Rotate around horizontal axis.  Do
this 30 rev's one directino,  then 30 rev's in the opposite direction.
Repeat with right arm.

A.9. Weight lifting

Left  arm - 6  lb weight,  Raise &  lower from  left elbow  to soulder
height (25 reps).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
BED EXERCISES - Do each of the 30X while holding on to sink:

B.1. Bridging

Lie on  your back with  your knees bent,  feet flat on the  floor, and
your arms at  your sides.  Tighten your abdonimal  and buttock muscles
as you lift your buttocks off  the floor.  Hold for 5 seconds.  Relax,
returning to the starting position.  Repeat 30 times.

B.2.  Hip Abd/Add, Supine

Lie  on your back,  with your  knees straight  and your  toes pointing
upward.  Move one leg out to  the side as far as possible to stabilize
your  pelbis.  Now slowly  move your  leg out  to the  side as  far as
possible,  then return  to the  starting position.   Be sure  to leave
yourself enough room. Repeat 30 times.

B.3. Ankle Pumps

Sitting or lying down, alternatively point foot down  then bring it up
toward shin.  Repeat 30 times

B.4. Heel Slides

Lie on back.  Slide on heel along bed toward buttock.  Hold 3 seconds.
Slide back to flat.  Repeat 30 times.

B.5. Knee Rolls, Supine

Lie on back  with knees bent.  Hold abdomen and  waistline firm as you
roll both knees  to one side about 8 inches.  Then  roll them the same
distance to  the other side.   Do this exercise rhythmically  and with
control.  Repeat 30 times.

B.6. Seated Arm Circling

Sit straight  in chair  with feet flat  on floor.  Hold  abdomen tight
throughout this exercise.  Make large  circles with arms out to sides,
5 times in each directino.  Repeat 30 times.

B.7. Straight Leg Raise

Lie  on back  with one  leg  straight and  the other  leg bent.   Hold
abdomen tight throughtout exercise, tighten knee and lift straight leg
slowly to  level of other  knee.  Lower slowly.   Repeat 3 sets  of 10
times.

B.8. Hip Abduction, Sidelying

Lie on  one side with top leg  straight and other leg  bent.  Lift top
leg up and slightly to the back.  Lower slowly.  Repeat 30 times.

B.9. Prone Hamstring Curl

Lie face  down.  Use a pillow or  a towel roll under  your forehead if
you cannot turn  your head.  Bend your knee as far  as you can.  Don't
let your hip lift up as you bend.  Relax.  Repeat 30 times.

B.10. Prone Hip Extension

Lie face  down.  Use a  pillow or a  towel roll under forehead  if you
cannot turn face to side.  Tighten buttocks and lift one leg vack from
hip.  Keep  pelvis on bed (don't  roll to side or  bend opposite hip).
Lower.  Repeat 30 times.

B.11. Seated Marching

Sit with  good posture.  Hold abdomen tight  throughout this exercise.
Lift knees alternatively 30 times.
